The Embedded Muse

------------------------------------------------------------
Embedded Muse 78    Copyright 2002 TGG      November 13, 2002
------------------------------------------------------------
You may redistribute this newsletter for noncommercial purposes. For 
commercial use contact info@ganssle.com.

EDITOR: Jack Ganssle, jack@ganssle.com

CONTENTS:
- Editor's Notes
- Embedded Seminars
- Jobs
- Thought for the Week
- About The Embedded Muse


Editor's Notes
--------------
Last issue I referred to a set of RAM testing guidelines. Michael Barr, 
Embedded Systems Programming's Editor-In-Chief, has an excellent 
application note about this that includes working C code. It needs but a 
single minor typedef change to work for 8, 16 or 32 bit wide chips. Check 
it out at http://www.netrino.com/Articles/MemoryTesting. Highly recommended.

Jim Turley, always funny and thoughtful, wrote a fascinating article in 
this month's Embedded Systems Programming that's a must-read for anyone 
baffled about the future of ASICs and programmable parts. He contends that 
ASICs are getting so expensive to design (with mask costs heading north of 
$1 million per spin) that except in the very highest-volume products they 
are too expensive. It's probably a bit tongue-in-cheek, but does make you 
think. Do read http://embedded.com/story/OEG20021028S0039.

A related article in last week's EE Times 
(http://www.eedesign.com/story/OEG20021105S0030) suggests that ASIC/SOC 
designs are hampered by productivity issues, more or less tossing the 
gauntlet into the lap of the tool vendors to provide better tools. 
Apparently designers are now creating designs at something like a 500 
gate-per-day rate; by 2005 at least one pundit predicts productivity will 
have to climb to 2 million gates per day.

Reading all of the recent press hoopla about .13 micron and now 90 
nanometer geometries it's easy to forget that a lot of the market runs very 
happily on much lower-end processes. Microchip's PIC line is still largely 
.7 micron. 90 nanometer sounds awfully impressive, but life on the bleeding 
edge is always a trail of tears.

Finally, I wrote an article about Toxic Bosses 
(http://embedded.com/story/OEG20021031S0037). The accompanying poll was 
quite instructive. As of this writing, 72% of the 425 respondents are bound 
to their jobs by fear, money or lack of options. Few expressed delight in 
their work. That confirms my theory that when the economy improves, when 
more jobs appear, employers should expect a great migration of their 
embedded folks. This can't be good for the bottom line.


Embedded Seminars
-----------------
I'll be presenting my Better Firmware Faster seminar in Irvine, CA on 
December 4 and Dallas, TX on December 6. See 
http://www.ganssle.com/classes.htm for more information. This is the only 
non-vendor class around that shows practical, hard-hitting ways to get your 
products out much faster with fewer bugs. The crummy economy is putting 
pressure on all developers; come and learn the tricks you need to be more 
efficient.

I often do this seminar on-site, for companies with ten or more embedded 
folks who'd like to learn more efficient ways to build firmware. See 
http://www.ganssle.com/onsite.htm.


Jobs
----
Steve Jones let me know that General Software is hiring embedded people 
like crazy. Check out http://www.gensw.com/pages/about/jobs.htm for more 
information.

And if you know of anyone looking for embedded people, let me know and I'll 
pass the info along.


Thought for the Week
--------------------
Here's a great site: http://www.intuitor.com/moviephysics/. It's a review 
of the physics in many movies. The writing is fun, and they take Hollywood 
to task for making a mush of physics. I especially like this quote about 
Titanic:

"We got a bit giddy over the high-tech submarines used in the opening 
scenes. However, we could have done without the hackneyed portrayal of the 
sub's technonerd staff. Had they merely been portrayed as crude, 
insensitive, and slovenly, we would have remained silent, but they were 
also portrayed as greedy money grubbers."

"While technonerds may not be in the same category as Mother Teresa, Emily 
Post, or Little Mary Sunshine, we would like to point out that given the 
choice between living in luxury and driving high-tech mini-subs around the 
ocean bottom, real technonerds will choose the latter. It's a no-brainer. 
The only point of money for technonerds is that a certain amount of it is 
needed to support their techno-habits. Unfortunately, Titanic failed the 
reality test in this area."


About The Embedded Muse
-----------------------
The Embedded Muse is an occasional newsletter sent via email by Jack 
Ganssle. Send complaints, comments, and contributions to me at 
jack@ganssle.com.

To subscribe, send a message to majordomo@ganssle.com, with the words 
"subscribe embedded email-address" in the body. To unsubscribe, change the 
message to "unsubscribe embedded email-address". BUT - please use YOUR 
email address in place of "email-address".

The Embedded Muse is supported by The Ganssle Group, whose mission is to 
help embedded folks get better products to market faster.




